- [Instructor] Storing files using the
appropriate settings for line endings
is one standardization that can benefit teams.
This is important because line endings
vary between operating systems.
Unix and OS X systems only use a line feed
to terminate a line.
Windows systems use both a carriage return and a line feed.
When you mix platforms, such as when you perform your
development on a Windows machine, and then you run your
system on a Unix machine, there can be issues
if line endings are not handled properly.
Git provides a configuration setting
named core.autocrlf that can be used to handle this issue.
Let's take a quick look at it in action.
So within the terminal on an Ubuntu machine,
we're going to look at a file
within a repository named Sample.java.
So I will open the file with vi,
and you'll notice that inside of the file
we see these caret Ms all over the place.
What that represents is the carriage return.
This file was created in Windows,
and then brought over to our Linux system,
and the Linux system doesn't know how to display
the carriage returns so it shows the caret M.
This can cause issues when you are doing things
like compiling code, or, I've seen it a lot
when you are providing configuration files.
An application reading the configuration file
can have problems when it encounters these stray
carriage returns that have been brought over
from a Windows machine.
So now that we took a look at the file,
let's actually navigate out and we'll build our repository.
So I just initialized a new Git repository,
and then inside of the repository,
we're going to set a configuration setting, core.autocrlf,
and we're going to set this to the input value.
We'll talk a little bit more
about what these values mean in a minute.
But I'm going to go ahead, set that property,
and now I'm going to add the file to the stage.
You'll notice we get a warning.
Git's telling us, hey we're gonna take all the carriage
return line feeds and replace them with simply line feeds.
And we're okay with that.
At this point we're then going to commit,
and now what I'm going to do is I'm going to force Git
to re-pull the file from the repository.
So I'll do something like this,
I'll build a new branch in the other branch,
then I'm going to remove the Sample.java file.
We're going to add that change as well as commit it.
And now I'm going to check out the master branch.
Okay, so Git was forced
to pull the file from the repository.
Let's see what it looks like now.
You'll notice that the caret Ms have been removed.
And that's thanks to the autocrlf property
and the input value that we assigned to it.
So now let's talk about
some of the values for that property.
Here are the options you have.
We saw the input value and what that setting does,
is it's going to commit carriage return line feed
to line feed when we commit.
Now if we check out from a repository,
it's not going to do any transformation.
You want to use this setting
when your repository is on a Unix machine
and you're working in a cross platform environment.
Now, the next option we have for the autocrlf setting
is TRUE, what this will do is
it will cause carriage return line feed
to be converted to line feed,
but then when we check out from the repository,
it's going to take line feed
and convert it to carriage return line feed.
So it's going to work well on Windows systems.
So if your repository's sitting on a Windows system,
and you're doing cross platform development,
TRUE is the setting for you.
And then finally, FALSE doesn't do any conversions,
and you'd only use this when you're
working on a single platform across the board.
So, learning how to set the autocrlf setting
can save you some headaches when you're working
in a cross platform environment.